---
title: The Cars In My Backyard
published: April 21, 2025
tags: note-to-self
---

When I walk around my neighbourhood, I am struck by the beautiful
character of the houses here: the draughty Queenslanders with their
timber fences, the CR2 infill housing with its strict minimum lot
size, I could go on forever. But something has always felt off, and I
finally realise what it is. How can I admire a house with elegant
stilts and sweeping verandahs when there is a bright red 2019 Ford
Puma sitting in the driveway? How can I appreciate a compact, postwar
masterpiece when I see a Hilux poking out around the side? I can tell
you with certainty that no Mitsubishi hatchback graced the carport of
the house on the corner when it was built in 1925. In the countless
hours I've spent positioning myself on the street so I can bathe in
the heritage of my neighbourhood, I have not found an angle without
some modern monstrosity in my field of view.

We have spent years defending our neighbourhood against the vandals
who want to diminish its heritage. Why should we make an exception for
this? We have a duty to defend the character of our suburb from this
ugliness, and I see no other option: we must forbid residents from
bringing any new cars into the area. This is already a compromise, as
if I had my way we would ban every car newer than the house it is
parked in front of. (Of course, some especially old houses would need
hitching posts to be reinstalled.) Preventing additional modern cars
is a good first step; we can at least not dig ourselves a deeper hole.

Let's get concrete. Any house that is on the state or local government
heritage register should be prohibited from locating a
non-heritage-appropriate vehicle on the premises; this includes having
the car parked on the street adjacent to the house. Any resident must
submit an impact assessment to the council when intending to place a
new car on the property, to be evaluated by the vehicle heritage
committee after a community consultation period of no less than the
standard 30 days.

It's not that I have an issue with having cars in our neighbourhood: I
just think they should be _appropriate_ and _affordable_ cars. It's
hard to fathom anybody disagreeing with this, and yet, I can already
hear the "NIMBY" slur howled by the usual suspects. Let me anticipate
and dispatch their complaints one at a time.

1. __"This would be an assault on our personal freedom."__ 

   Whose freedom is really at stake here? The residents of our
   community should be free to live in a neighbourhood that respects
   its heritage, something that we are currently being deprived of.
   There is no reason that your personal preferences should be
   inflicted on the rest of the community.

   If you are not happy with our efforts to maintain the character of
   the neighbourhood, you are perfectly free to live in a place where
   people drive cars more to your taste. What the YIMBYs demand is the
   silencing of local opinion: does that sound like freedom to you? Of
   course, as responsible citizens we should pay attention to the
   goals of society at large, but we should ask whose interests are
   really being served by giving communities less control over their
   own neighbourhoods.

2. __"This application process would be excessive and onerous."__

   The community should have a say in what vehicles are allowed on
   their street, it's as simple as that. It's shocking what people are
   able to get away with currently; an impact assessment for each new
   vehicle is really not that much to ask.

   Anyone worried that the committee would be too strict can rest
   easy. Myself and some other passionate community members ran a
   small trial involving people with a range of backgrounds, from
   owners of pre-war classics to mid-century sedan enthusiasts. After
   discussing which makes and models we would be willing to accept, I
   am happy to say that we approved many of the heritage-appropriate
   cars that were submitted. That these regulations would be a big
   imposition is therefore simply wrong.

3. __"Old cars are worse than modern ones: less efficient, less
   powerful, less convenient, less safe."__ 
   
   This is an absolute non-issue. Nobody is preventing you from
   replacing the engine and interior of your character-appropriate car
   with something that suits you better. Why don't we hear about this
   kind of conversion happening more often? It's because these
   problems are just imagined: clearly people are happy with their
   heritage cars as they are. Although now that you mention it, in
   some cases the committee will want to get a look-in on the interior
   too.

   In any case, there are workarounds. In rare situations, and
   strictly subject to the committee's approval, it may be enough to
   change the shape of a part of the offending car so that its
   character-ruining design is not visible from the street. These are
   the kinds of improvements that we on the committee could generously
   assist a car owner by suggesting. Frankly, it is kind that the
   committee is considering the non-compliant proposal at all.
   
   Slowing down the churn of new vehicles is all to the good: we want
   to encourage people to maintain and cherish their beautiful
   existing vehicles. Ultimately this is far more sustainable than
   having people switch to newer cars. Our group has the full support
   of local environmentalists in this regard.

4. __"Some people would get a lot of benefit from a new car."__

   Of course, but let's check the other side of the ledger, how the
   rest of our community is affected. Do we have the infrastructure to
   support all the cars that people want to bring in? Adding any more
   before improving the existing roads is irresponsible. Reducing the
   number of people who could drive, which wouldn't happen, would in
   any case be a good thing, if it did happen, which it won't. I'm
   sure you agree our traffic problem is out of control.

   Think also of how bright modern LED headlights can be. This is not
   a joke: the UN Special Rapporteur on Torture and Other Cruel,
   Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment makes very clear that
   sleep deprivation is capable of amounting to torture. I encourage
   you to bring this up at the next council meeting.

5. __"Allowing modern cars means cars are cheaper and accessible to
   more people."__ 

   Finally, the economic illiteracy we all knew was coming. The price
   of a car is influenced by a multitude of factors: global supply
   chains, financing tricks, tax incentives and manufacturer greed, to
   name a few. There's no evidence that our heritage rules would have
   any impact on the price or availability of cars.

   In fact, the current free-for-all is probably contributing to the
   price issue. Beyond lining the pockets of car manufacturers, having
   "luxury" cars in our neighbourhood increases demand for similar
   cars, and so in fact increases their price for everyone. The way to
   have truly affordable cars is to preserve the existing stock of
   older vehicles and prevent speculation caused by these new luxury
   models.

   Like everyone, I believe Australia will need more cars to match our
   growing population. But is our neighbourhood really the best place
   for them to go? There are already lots of cars here, and plenty of
   Holden EHs and Valiants to go around. And if there does end up
   being a shortage, it's clear who's to blame: the people who own one
   of these cars and don't drive it much.

6. __"Making only heritage cars is not feasible for car
   manufacturers."__

   When people make this claim you should check them for an earpiece:
   they are getting their lines directly from the manufacturers
   themselves. Who do you think most profits from our current
   free-for-all? The manufacturers who want to pump out modern cars
   for people to endlessly buy; it's pure corporate greed.

   Sure, it could be that the heritage committee reduces the inflated
   profits of corporations. I struggle to see how this is an issue. If
   Toyota isn't interested in building a perfect replica of the Ford
   Falcon XK, the solution is simple: manufacturers will be forced to
   reserve some minimum percentage of their fleet for heritage
   vehicles. If we allow manufacturers to build however they like,
   they will only ever build their unaffordable luxury cars.

   I wouldn't have such a problem with these modern cars if they were
   just built to a higher standard. Some of them are so small; no one
   wants a Kia. We should enforce at least a minimum boot size to
   prevent these unreasonable cars from being built in the first
   place, that would certainly save the manufacturers a lot of
   trouble.

We don't need more cars in our neighbourhood, we need more
_appropriate_ and _affordable_ cars. Write to your councillor to
demand a vehicle heritage committee. Myself and the other concerned
residents stand ready to serve.
