---
title: The Ethics of Reporting on Placebos
published: July 5, 2019
tags: note-to-self, infohazard
---

Is it ethical to write articles discussing the [placebo
effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Placebo)? It is certainly
ethical to conduct research on the effect; understanding it better
could lead to more effective treatment of [pain, nausea,
asthma](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD003974.pub3/abstract)
and more.

Since the placebo effect was popularised in the medical community by
Henry Beecher in 1955, the standing assumption has been that for a
placebo to be effective the patient must be unaware that their
treatment was a sham. A lot of ink has been spilled on the ethics of
administering placebos&mdash;whether it is ethical to deceive a
patient for their own good&mdash;but this is not what I am thinking
of.

<!--more-->

Instead, if a placebo needs to be a secret to be effective, then just
*knowing* about the existence of placebos changes their efficacy on
you. If you are given a placebo to treat a condition, you may suspect
that the treatment you are given is a placebo, making it less
effective. Worse, you may incorrectly guess that a real treatment is a
placebo, making it less effective than it would have otherwise been!

In science fiction, information that can harm you just by knowing it
is sometimes called a `infohazard'. The placebo effect is the only
example of a real-world infohazard that I know of. It is not clear to
me whether the authors of pop-science articles on placebos considered
this possible negative consequence of publishing the articles.

It is difficult to say what the ideal way to handle placebos would
be. A world where doctors and researches conspire to keep the placebo
effect a secret would help in this limited sense, but of course this
has its own ethical issues. Not to mention the potential damage caused
by loss of trust in medicine if such a conspiracy were revealed.

Some salvation comes in 2017. [Ahe
study](https://journals.lww.com/pain/Citation/2017/12000/Is_the_rationale_more_important_than_deception__A.7.aspx)
suggests that placebos can work when the patient knows about them, so
long as the patient is told that they will work. Performing this
treatment is replacing one form of deception with another; rather than
pretending the pill is real medicine, the doctor pretends that they
know the placebo will work. Perhaps this is more palatable ethically!

We now have to turn to the ethics of writing *this* note. It is
possible that reading this note might cause someone to second-guess
their treatment when they otherwise wouldn't have. Were it not for the
previous paragraph on the 2017 study, I would be making exactly the
same ethical mistake as the authors of other articles.

I think the actual chance of articles on the placebo effect causing
serious harm are pretty slim. But for my own sake (and yours!), I
avoided looking up any further studies on the placebo effect beyond
the 2017 result.

The idea of keeping placebos secret has a flip-side. The
[nocebo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nocebo) effect concerns
patients whose conditions worsen due to their own negative
expectations. For example, being told the side-effects of a drug can
make it more likely for these side-effects to manifest. Popularising
the nocebo effect could help counteract this: people may recognise
that an effect they are feeling is due to their own expectations,
helping them overcome it.
